# C++ Recursive Include Preprocessor

This project is a C++ preprocessor-like program that recursively handles #include directives within C++ files, expanding the contents of included files into a single output file. 

## Features

• **Recursive Include Resolution:**: Handles both local (`#include "file.h"`) and library includes (`#include <file.h>`).  
• **Custom Include Directories**: Allows you to specify multiple directories for resolving library includes.  
• **Error Reporting:**: Outputs detailed error messages for missing include files.  
• **Unit Testing:**: Includes test cases that verify the output to ensure correct include resolution.    

## Project Structure

The code is divided into the following key components:

```
├── sources/               # Contains main and test files for include testing(This directory is generated by code in main)
│   ├── a.cpp              # Example main file with includes
│   └── dir1/              # Subdirectory for nested includes
│       ├── b.h
│       ├── d.h
│       └── subdir/
│           └── c.h
├── include1/              # Include directories specified in tests
│   └── std1.h
├── include2/
│   └── lib/
│       └── std2.h
├── preprocessor.h
├── preprocessor.cpp       
└── main.cpp               # runs tests
```

## Installation and Setup

### Prerequisites

  C++17 or higher (required for filesystem support).

### Build Instructions

  #### Step 1: Clone the Repository:
  
  Clone this repository to your local machine:
  
  ```bash
  git clone git@github.com:Daria-Chepurnaia/cpp-preprocessor.git
  ```
  #### Step 2: Compile the Project:
  
  
  ```bash
  g++ -std=c++17 main.cpp preprocessor.cpp -o preprocessor
  ```
  #### Step 3: Run the Project:

  The main function in main.cpp contains a test function (Test()) that sets up test files and verifies the output. Run the compiled executable to execute these tests.
  
  ```bash
  ./preprocessor
  ```

## How It Works

• **Recursive Preprocessing:** RecPreprocess reads each line, identifies #include directives, and processes them recursively.  
• **File Resolution:** For each #include directive, the program searches for the file in the current directory or specified include paths.  
• **Output:** Non-include lines are copied directly to the output, while included files are expanded recursively.  

## Usage 

The program preprocesses files with #include directives and outputs a single file with all the dependencies expanded inline.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](https://github.com/Daria-Chepurnaia/cpp-preprocessor/blob/master/LICENSE.txt).

